hi everybody it's Jenny it's been a
while since I did an update so I thought
I'd do a really quick update because I
know I have some followers and I
appreciate that so I hope you're all
doing well and feeling well for those of
you who have never seen the series that
I've done over the last couple years
gosh it's been almost two years that I
started it um what's the date today it's
May 16th 2013 and I'm going on 17 months
post-op at this point I had a spinal
fusion at the l4 l5 level it was a
posterior P LIF right yeah so it's been
so long since I've thought about all the
technical terms with a laminectomy which
is when they take the little bone off of
your back and one of your vertebrae and
they ground that up and they use that in
my in the cage that they put between the
l4 l5 vertebrae and then of course I
have four screws and two pins and or two
rods and I'm doing great so I haven't
been online for a while alright have
been online a lot actually but I haven't
made a video for a while I have been
very busy just usual stuff with kids
we've gotten through the holidays we've
gotten through winter I I did a a weight
loss challenge that was exciting I was
just feeling heavy and hadn't done a
whole lot through the winter and a
friend of mine started that January on
Facebook so basically every week we had
to check in it was kind of like a Weight
Watchers thing but I ended up losing 22
pounds I was really excited about it
I will admit I didn't even exercise a
whole lot during that time frame I was
just really watching my calories so it
worked great I had a lot of kale and my
diet a lot of fruits and vegetables I
eliminated rice pasta breads and a lot
of red meats I stuck with chicken and
fish and turkey and pork so that was
kind of a good thing to learn you know
if you're if you're stuck in a position
and physically where you can't be doing
a lot of activity and you find that
you're putting on the pounds because of
that that I have some
diet tips for you so that's a whole
other ballgame but just looking through
my notes here made it through the winter
without a falling which was a goal of
mine here in Pennsylvania we get some
ice and snow in the winter months so I
wanted to make sure that you know I got
through the winter without having any
accidents because that would have been
bad after all of my work to stay strong
and build this backpack up I've been
really feeling great just to answer a
lot of your questions I get emails a lot
which is really great I love answering
questions that you have this is one of
the videos in my series that has been
about two years like I said so I don't
have a lot of updates which is why I
haven't been really consistent lately
with videos but it's just because I'm I
feel great I haven't had any pain at all
I mean it's it's almost a year and a
half post-surgery and just I feel good I
feel like I used to I feel normal I
don't feel like I have anything wrong
with my back at all I do still watch
like how I'm lifting things I've been
doing hiking with my family now that the
the spring has come and you know we live
close to the Appalachian Trail so that's
a tough trail to hike because it's very
very rocky here in Pennsylvania and I
wasn't sure how I would do with that
it's a lot of kind of like you know
watching where you're stepping and then
you'd get two points we almost have to
Boulder like climb across rocks and I
was just so happy that I could do it
again and it didn't bother me it
actually felt really good to be out and
doing that kind of activity we walked I
think five or six miles last weekend and
then this past weekend over Mother's Day
I was up at Penn State I did I was
chaperoning a science fair for the for
the state championships and I walked all
over campus with the kids for a three
days straight
I think I'm I clocked my mileage I think
I did like 13 miles or something just
walking around campus and I had no
problems I mean I was tired and I will
admit my back felt like a little bit
sore but I think anybody's back would
feel sore after doing that especially
when you're not used to that so I really
feel like I'm fixed I mean I
I don't know what the future holds but I
feel like this fusion was a very wise
decision for where I was at I was
completely limited I couldn't do
anything with my kids I had so much pain
I couldn't stand for more than just a
couple minutes at a time and that was
part of the stenosis I had disc
degeneration at that level and I also
had stenosis so if you're feeling like
like when you stand for a long time and
you're feeling like a key like almost
like you have to bend over and you know
stretch or get that tension out of your
back that that's likely a stenosis issue
because that's like a narrowing of your
spinal column and that's part of what I
had and there's a chance that it you
know might get worse as I get older
because that's a natural thing for most
people but it happened to me really
early you know I'm I'm 37 now so it
happened earlier on in my in my early
30s which was too young so I feel like
for the most part that is fixed I have
noticed the last couple months probably
due to my inactivity that um I do feel
like I get a little bit achy in my back
um lower back and that could be a number
of things it could just be like you know
scar tissue build-up or arthritis just
when you have major surgery like that
there's other issues that can come into
play eventually especially if you're not
sticking with your your PT or physical
therapy and exercising you know I was so
religious in that first well probably
eight to nine months I mean I walked
religiously I had my treadmill in my
living room I walked over you night at
least two miles if it was nice out I
would go for a walk during the day and I
completely admit that I have not done
that so I've now that I feel good I've
been back to my you know doing my I do a
lot of volunteer work and when you get
and caught up with all that stuff you
have to really make the time to exercise
and I have out of it I'm not an
exerciser but you have to do it if you
want to keep your back strong if to keep
that core strong so I think that's
pretty much it I really don't have a lot
of updates but I wanted to let you all
know that I appreciate your emails and I
love the answering questions that you
have you know I'm not a doctor I can't
tell you what to do but I
we can tell you from my experience that
the spinal fusion was a great choice
after trying all the other you know
methods injections pills physical
therapy massage therapy I tried all
those things for a long time and and
this is kind of what it came down to so
I'm glad I did it it's given me at least
a year and a half of good quality life
with my family and I know I have a lot
more to go here we're gonna be traveling
again this summer where I'm taking a
road trip out to Colorado we're gonna
drive from Pennsylvania and we're
camping this year so we shall see how I
do with that camping for three and a
half weeks I think in a tent not a
camper in a tent so I do have a good air
mattress and I'm planning on using that
so I'll keep you posted
we'll see how that does okay wish you
all well have a great rest of the spring
and happy summer
I'll be back probably after the summer